Duty
ETL Technical Lead in a group of BI developers consisting of ETL and report developers.
Lead projects from initialization phase from capturing business requirements to final phases of testing
Served as mentor and reviewer to junior Specialists in data warehousing and ETL.


Designed and developed Batch Control process to run the Data Stage sequences in batches for restart ability and recoverability.
Identifying the common functionality between the processes and created reusable code using shared containers and PL and SQL procedures.
----------------------------------
Extracted the data from various sources like MS SQL server, DB2, Oracle and Flat files and loaded into the ORACLE database.
Created the Mappings for extracting and loading the data using various transformations like Sorter, Ranker, Joiner, Lookup, Normalizer, Java and SQL Transformation.etc.
Designed and developed the Mappings and Database tables for slowly changing dimensions and fact tables loading.
Derived the incremental extraction and load logic for target table based on the source data.
Created batch command to start the ETL process or execute the external programs through Workflow Manager.
Performed the performance tuning at Mapping, Session, Workflow and Database levels.
Creating the Technical Specification documents.
Administrate the migration from the development environment the production environment.

Administrate the ETL server and day end process, including user privilege, ETL arrangement and documentation

Providing post-implementation maintenance and enhancement support to the user of existing project.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Analyzing the dependencies between the jobs and scheduling them accordingly using the Work Scheduler.
Investigating and fixing the bugs occurred in the production environment and providing the on-call support.
Key player in integrating the core mainframe payment processor along with Upstream and Downstream interfaces using Data Stage ETL solution.
Co-ordinate with the Data Stage Center of Excellence team in tuning the performance of the Data Stage jobs.
Facilitated the Production move ups of ETL components from Acceptance to Production environment.


Skill
Designed a highly parallel load of 100+ million records of historical data and did performance tuning on Oracle as well Ab Initio to bring down load times from over 16 hours to 6 hours.

Served as a data architect and modeler, translating business requirements into complicated star and snowflake schema models for new product launches or mergers.

